The revision of the manuscript, MBE-11-1006, has been greatly improved in its
clarity of the exposition. I do not have major concerns, but have minor
comments and typos. It would have been great if the authors wrote changes in the
revision in bold font.

Page 4 (Lines 41-43): 3d -> 3D or three dimensional

Page 12 (Lines 57-59) - Page 13 (Lines 1-28): The authors did two sets of
simulations: one without insertion and deletion, and the other with them. They,
then, applied their structure-sequence inference to either of them. Around Page
13 (Lines 15-16), they refer to the first set of simulation as ``when alignment
is known'' and the second set of simulation as ``when alignment uncertainty is
accounted for.'' These references seem to be confusing because they are not
contrasted. If one is referred to as ``alignment is known'', then the other
could be referred to as ``alignment is unknown.'' Or, the first set could be
referred to as ``alignment uncertainty is not accounted for''. It is more
confusing because readers would have to guess whether the same inferrence
procedure of sequence-structure inferences were applied to both of the sets of
simulation data sets, or somewhat different inference procedures were applied.
From the paragraph at the top of Page 13, it seems that the same procedure is
applied to both of the two sets. It may not be the case after reading the
paragraph. 

Page 13 (Lines 46-52): This has the same issues above as Page 13 (Lines 1-28).

Page 14 (Lines 30-32): ``Around t=2'' of Figure 2A or 2B?

Page 14 (Lines 56-58) - Page 15 (Lines 25-27): The authors write that
``consistent with the results obtained by Hein et al. (2000) for shorter
evoltuionary distrances.'' But, Figure 3B is consistent with the Hein's
estimate whereas Figures 3A and 3C are not. Furthermore, Figure 3B is for sea
cucumber, which is between lamprey and clam in evolutionary distances.  




