Hi,

Charles and I have editted the following text (see the attached file) in
response to Mike's request. He wanted to have one paragraph tomorrow. I am
wondering if you could quickly comment on it.  Please, feel free to edit as you
want. I want to send one today or tomorrow.  

Thank you,

SangChul

Main Text
---------
We use RNA-seq data to define genes whose expression changes between samples
(e.g, Oshlack et al., 2010).  Short reads are first mapped to a reference genome
using standard approaches such as BWA (Li and Durbin, 2009). Annotated protein
coding genes and other regions of interest are publicly available, or can be
obtained using commercial software.  Importantly, our procedure can be used to
test the expression of non-coding RNA genes, provided their genomic coordinates
can be determined.  Reads fitting into one of the annotated intervals are
counted.  These counts are passed to a statistical package which treats
differences in read counts for statistical significance.  For this purpose, we
will make use of edgeR (Robinson et al., 2010) and DEseq (Anders and Huber,
2010).  This prodecure returns a list of differentially expressed genes, which
can be passed to downstream analysis, such as functionaly category enrichment
test (e.g., Young et al., 2010).

References
----------
Anders, S. & Huber, W. Differential expression analysis for sequence count data.
Genome Biol, European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Mayerhofstra√üe 1, 69117
Heidelberg, Germany. sanders@fs.tum.de, 2010, 11, R106

Li, H. & Durbin, R. Fast and accurate short read alignment with Burrows-Wheeler
transform. Bioinformatics, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust
Genome Campus, Cambridge, CB10 1SA, UK., 2009, 25, 1754-1760

Marioni, J. C.; Mason, C. E.; Mane, S. M.; Stephens, M. & Gilad, Y. RNA-seq: an
assessment of technical reproducibility and comparison with gene expression
arrays. Genome Res, Department of Human Genetics, University of Chicago,
Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA., 2008, 18, 1509-1517

Oshlack A, Robinson MD, Young MD. From RNA-seq reads to differential expression
results. Genome Biology. 2010;11:12.

Oshlack, A. & Wakefield, M. J. Transcript length bias in RNA-seq data confounds
systems biology. Biol Direct, Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical
Research, Parkville, Vic, Australia. oshlack@wehi.edu.au, 2009, 4, 14

Robinson, M. D.; McCarthy, D. J. & Smyth, G. K. edgeR: a Bioconductor package
for differential expression analysis of digital gene expression data.
Bioinformatics, Cancer Program, Garvan Institute of Medical Research, 384
Victoria Street, Darlinghurst, NSW 2010, Australia. mrobinson@wehi.edu.au, 2010,
26, 139-140

Robinson, M. D. & Smyth, G. K. Moderated statistical tests for assessing
differences in tag abundance. Bioinformatics, Department of Medical Biology,
University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia., 2007, 23, 2881-2887

Young, M. D.; Wakefield, M. J.; Smyth, G. K. & Oshlack, A. Gene ontology
analysis for RNA-seq: accounting for selection bias. Genome Biol, Bioinformatics
Division, The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, 1G Royal
Parade, Parkville 3052, Australia., 2010, 11, R14 

Other issues that could be discussed
------------------------------------

Statistical hypothesis testing on the gene-wise counts:
the testing is based on statistical models including a Poisson model of read
counts (Marioni et al. 2008), and a negative binomial model to account for
variation in replicates (Robinson and Smith, 2007).  

Technical and biological replicates:
Because RNA-Seq is highly reproducible, technical replicates are often
unnecessary. However, biological replicates would allow to account for
biological variation.

Normalization:
We adjust for different total read counts from samples by normalizing RNA-Seq
data (e.g., Robinson and Oshlack, 2010).

Biases due to low counts and lengths:
Because genes with low read counts can lead to biases, we remove genes with low
counts, or below a threshold of counts.  Transcript length (Oshlack and
Wakefield, 2010; Young et al., 2010) should be considered to remove biases;
simple division of read counts by gene lengths does not remove this potential
bias.
